# Citizen Code of Conduct

## 1. Purpose

A primary goal of `PereiraTechTalks` is to be inclusive to the largest number of
contributors, with the most varied and diverse backgrounds possible. As such, we
are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all,
regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socioeconomic
status, and religion (or lack thereof).

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in
our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.

We invite all those who participate in `PereiraTechTalks` to help us create safe and
positive experiences for everyone.

## 2. Open [Source/Culture/Tech] Citizenship

A supplemental goal of this Code of Conduct is to increase open
[source/culture/tech] citizenship by encouraging participants to recognize and
strengthen the relationships between our actions and their effects on our
community.

Communities mirror the societies in which they exist and positive action is
essential to counteract the many forms of inequality and abuses of power that
exist in society.

If you see someone who is making an extra effort to ensure our community is
welcoming, friendly, and encourages all participants to contribute to the
fullest extent, we want to know.

## 3. Expected Behavior

The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:

  * Participate in an authentic and active way. In doing so, you contribute to
    the health and longevity of this community.
  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.
  * Attempt collaboration before conflict.
  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.
  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert
    community leaders if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress,
or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.
  * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the
    public; please be respectful to all patrons of these locations.

## 4. Unacceptable Behavior

The following behaviors are considered harassment and are unacceptable within
our community:

  * Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another
    person.
  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory
    jokes and language.
  * Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
  * Posting or threatening to post other people's personally identifying
    information ("doxing").
  * Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation,
    race, religion, or disability.
  * Inappropriate photography or recording.
  * Inappropriate physical contact. You should have someone's consent before
    touching them.
  * Unwelcome sexual attention. This includes, sexualized comments or jokes;
    inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcomed sexual advances.
  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
  * Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations.

## 5. Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Unacceptable behavior from any community member, including sponsors and those
with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, the community organizers
may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a temporary ban
or permanent expulsion from the community without warning (and without refund in
the case of a paid event).

## 6. Reporting Guidelines

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other
concerns, please notify a community organizer as soon as possible.

Email: pereiratechtalks@gmail.com

Additionally, community organizers are available to help community members
engage with local law enforcement or to otherwise help those experiencing
unacceptable behavior feel safe. In the context of in-person events, organizers
will also try to provide escorts as desired by the person experiencing distress.

## 7. Addressing Grievances

These are the policies for upholding our community's standards of conduct in our
communication channels, associated meetups, conferences, study groups y virtual
events.

  * Remarks that violate the Code of Conduct, including hateful, 
    hurtful, oppressive, or exclusionary remarks, are not allowed. (Cursing is 
    allowed, but never targeting another user, and never in a hateful manner.)
  * Remarks that moderators find inappropriate, whether listed in the code of 
    conduct or not, are also not allowed.
  * Moderators will first respond to such remarks with a warning.
  * If the warning is unheeded, the user will be "kicked," i.e., kicked out of 
    the communication channel to cool off.
  * If the user comes back and continues to make trouble, they will be banned, 
    i.e., indefinitely excluded.
  * Moderators may choose at their discretion to un-ban the user if it was a 
    first offense and they offer the offended party a genuine apology.
  * If a moderator bans someone and you think it was unjustified, please take it 
    up with that moderator, or with a different moderator, in private. 
    Complaints about bans in-channel are not allowed.
  * Moderators are held to a higher standard than other community members. If a
    moderator creates an inappropriate situation, they should expect less leeway
    than others.

In the `PereiraTechTalks` community we strive to go the extra step to look out for 
each other. Don't just aim to be technically unimpeachable, try to be your best 
self. In particular, avoid flirting with offensive or sensitive issues, 
particularly if they're off-topic; this all too often leads to unnecessary 
fights, hurt feelings, and damaged trust; worse, it can drive people away from 
the community entirely.

And if someone takes issue with something you said or did, resist the urge to be
defensive. Just stop doing what it was they complained about and apologize. Even
if you feel you were misinterpreted or unfairly accused, chances are good there
was something you could've communicated better â€” remember that it's your
responsibility to make your fellow Rustaceans comfortable. Everyone wants to get
along and we are all here first and foremost because we want to talk about cool
technology. You will find that people will be eager to assume good intent and
forgive as long as you earn their trust.

[Adapted from Rust Moderation Policy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/wiki/Note-development-policy#moderation)

## 8. Scope

We expect all community participants (contributors, paid or otherwise; sponsors;
and other guests) to abide by this Code of Conduct in all community
venues--online and in-person--as well as in all one-on-one communications
pertaining to community business.

This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable
behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior
has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community
members.

## 9. Contact info

- pereiratechtalks@gmail.com
- [Meetup.com](https://www.meetup.com/es-ES/Pereira-Tech-Talks/)
- [www.facebook.com/PerTechTalks](https://www.facebook.com/PerTechTalks/)
- [@PerTechTalks](https://twitter.com/PerTechTalks) 

## 10. License and attribution

This Code of Conduct is distributed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). 

Portions of text derived from the [Django Code of
Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/) and the [Geek Feminism
Anti-Harassment
Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy).
